All right let's publish these batches that batch of inputs and a batch of toys and how we're going to
do that.
Well we're going to extract 10 transitions from the memory and inside these 10 transitions we'll put
the then current state in the batch of input and we'll take the next date to compute and target that's
exactly what we have to do now and then we'll just return these two populated batches of inputs and
targets.
So let's do this.
And since now we have to extract 10 transitions from the memory.
Well we'll do that thanks to her for a loop.
So here I'm starting a for loop now.
So the easy way to implement this would be to write for i in range.
Well then but there is another question which transitions are we going to extract from the memory.
Are there going to be the 10 fast transitions the last 10 transitions.
Well actually no there are going to be 10 random transitions from the memory.
So let's say that our memory is full with it's 100 transitions.
Well now we're going to extract 10 random transitions from the 100 so we can be the transition number
six then 17 34 whatever transitions between 0 and 100 and therefore in this Fulop here I'm going to
add a second looking variable which will be itx and which will correspond exactly to these 10 indexes
of the 10 random transitions we're going to extract from the memory.
OK.
And so since we're looping over two indexes.
Well we're not going to use the range function.
We're going to use the numerate function which is the exact function we must use when we want to get
two sets of indexes.
And so now in this great function well we want to input 10 for the index because we want to get 10 transitions
to create an input and the 10 targets.
And then since I do X here corresponds to the 10 random indexes of the memory which will correspond
to the 10 transitions we want to extract from the memory.
Well X will take the values of 10 random numbers between 0 and 100 or between 0 and the number of elements
of the memory at the time we were getting these batches.
OK so how are you going to implement that in this enumerate function.
Well the trick is to use the following.
We're directly going to get our random numbers between 0 and 100.
And to get them we're going to use as you can see them by then from them by we're going to get the random
Mudgal and from the random module we are going to get the rand function which we've already used.
Remember in the environment implementation at this specific step when we were simulating the new number
of users and the new rate of data at a specific iteration.
So here we are using the same trick Durans in function from the random module from the number library.
And remember we have to input two arguments here which are the bounds between which we want to get 10
random numbers for id x and so these are zero for the lower bound and not 100 because maybe our memory
doesn't have 100 transitions yet.
So instead of putting one hundred a year will simply get the actual length of the memory which we got
into this led memory variables.
I'm copying and pasting that here as upper bound.
All right so by doing this we get 10 random integers between 0 and the length of the memory.
But let's be careful that's going to give us the values that itx is going to take.
And now to get also the values that is going to take which are simply the successive integers 0 1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 because indeed we want to get 10 inputs and 10000 good batches of inputs and target well
to specify that we want this.
We just need to add here.
Size equals.
So right now it is tempting to add 10.
Remember same trap as before.
There might not be already 10 transitions in the memory.
So instead of putting 10 here you know the budget size.
Well we have to take the minimum of the length of the memory and the batch size so I'm taking that again
and I'm adding that here as the size which will correspond to the values that this first looping variable.
I will take perfect.
Now let's start populating our batches of inputs and targets.
All right so now that we have everything that is the trend iterations of this for loop and also some
random indexes between 0 and 100.
Well time to get our transitions.
And so that's exactly what we're going to get here first.
And that's why I'm getting the four elements of each of these 10 transitions we're going to extract
which are first the current state then the action plate.
Then the reward received.
And finally the next state then is reached by playing that action in this current state so that corresponds
to a specific transition which we're going to get by extracting it from our memory cells that memory.
And of course from that memory we're going to get first the right index of that transition which is
of course ADX idea here.
And then remember that each element of the memory is composed of two elements.
First the transition itself and then game over.
So to make sure we get that transition because we're not interested in getting game over yet.
Well we're going to get the first element of this list of two elements and this first element has the
index 0.
All right so now we just got the transition which is composed of these four elements.
And so that will allow us to compute the operations and the target.
But before now we're going to get whether the game is over because before completing the preditions
and the target we need to make sure that the game is not over.
And so I'm getting the game over resolve here whether the game is over.
And to get it well this time you know we're going to take that same transition from the memory.
But instead of getting the transition itself well we're going to get the game over a result which hasn't
decks one because it is the second element of this element of the memory perfect.
Now we get game over and now we actually have everything to create and populate our batch of inputs
and better diet.
So let's start with the batch of inputs and since we are looping over the rows that were bubbling in
the Badgeman put into our heads Well we just have to take care of a specific row because this specific
row has the index.
And what are we going to populate this row with.
Well that's of course going to be the current state because a current state is nothing else than the
input state of that specific transition.
We're dealing with.
All right.
So good.
So at the end of the for loop this will populate the whole batch of inputs coming from the turn extracted
transitions.
And now let's take care of the budget target.
So saying we're going to take our initialized batch of targets which so far only contains 0 values and
same we're dealing with a specific row of the budget targets that is a specific target and this target
will be computed from the transition of index again.
But here we can not directly target as we just said we have to compute it.
And so now the question is what do we have to put in the 5 columns inside the specific row.
I well remember we have to put the predicted values for the actions that were not selected and this
specific formula here for the action that was selected in this specific transition that we just extracted
from the memory.
And so for us well what we're going to do is put the predictions for all the columns and then in this
specific corresponding to the action that was played.
We will put the right formula.
So let's do this in order to get the predictions we're going to take our model because it is indeed
one of our arguments here.
And then from this model Well since the moral has to carry a structure you know it is an object from
this model class.
Well no that this class contains a method which is the predicate method and which of course will return
the predicted values.
And so that's exactly what we need right now.
What we want to get are pretty true values.
And so from this model and getting the Predict method and as an argument of this method we of course
have to input the input of the model that will give us the predicted values and that input of course
is the current state.
And so let's actually take the current state again which corresponds of course to current state of that
specific transition we're dealing with right now in this for loop.
And so let's answer that here and then it's not over.
This method actually returns two elements and the predicted value is actually the first of these elements
and therefore here what we need to add is that index of the first element which is zero.
Okay perfect.
We now believe that correctly four of the five actions but now we're going to do the right replacement
for the action that was played because indeed it doesn't get this value here that is the it you value
but it will get exactly that formula here.
So let's get it and let's get in two steps.
We're first going to get the maximum of the predicted value for the next date which we have because
again it is another element of our transition.
The transition we're dealing with right now in the nube.
And so we're going to call this.
Q As a as for the states and a for the action.
And so what do we want to get right now.
We want to get exactly this this maximum.
And so that's where I'm going to get first non-bio because number has this next function that can return
the maximum of a row or column inside an array or even the maximum of an array.
And that's exactly what we want to get you know we want to get the maximum predicted values of the next
date and therefore here what I'm going to do is take all this copying and inside this Max function I'm
going to paste that but replace of course the current state by the next date because what's exactly
here inside this maximum are the cube values predicted by our model.
But for the next date and that's the maximum over the actions.
And since you know this is the row of dequeue values for that specific transition well this maximum
will return the maximum of that row and the maximum of that Roka response to a specific action.
And that's exactly the action that gives us here that maximum you know because that's the max over the
actions.
So that's exactly what we needed.
And so now we are ready to compute the final formula of the target.
That is the sum of the reward Plus the discount factor times the maximum that we just computed but be
careful.
Remember this game over that we have to deal with as well.
Indeed when dealing with this specific transition that was just extracted.
Well we need to check first if the game is not over.
And so that's why before I can be the target we're going to check if the game is over.
And so here we can either write equals 1 or even true because for bullion that's the same true equals
one.
But there is this more elegant way if you just put game over like that.
This will exactly mean if game of true or equals one that then you can just as your Carlon and specify
what's going to happen if indeed game of equal is true.
That is if the game is over.
And so if the game is over what is going to be this specific Culham corresponding to that specific transition
of index that we're dealing with right now in the loop.
And that specific action that was selected to be played by our AI.
Well if the game is over we have to specify to our AI that it failed so that it doesn't repeat the same
mistake.
And the trick in reinforcement learning to specify this is to keep track of the reward at that specific
stage when the game is over.
And so here instead of putting this formula which is used for the training when the game is not over
well we're just going to set that equal to the reward because after the game is over the AI has to know
that it failed so that it doesn't repeat the same mistake.
Remember that trick in reinforcement learning.
And now you understand why we needed to get that game of variable in our environment.
You know I specifically specified that getting game over here is a compulsory step in the general AI
framework.
So here we go.
That's a new trick for you to know and to implement.
And now on the other hand if the game is not over that is in the else condition.
Well that's where we're going to compute the target with this formula.
And that's this can be taken of the target that will be compared to the prediction which will incur
less error between that target here as you can see here.
And the prediction and then as the game is not over the slots will be back propagated into the neural
network and through to get a grid in the center.
We'll use our optimizer to update the weights to get some new weights which will reduce that loss error.
OK.
So let's go back to Python and let's compute that target.
But for that specific action that was just elected.
And for that specific transition we're dealing with right now in the loop.
So I'm copying this.
And what is that going to be equal to.
Well that's going to be equal of course to the reward Plus the maximum of the Q values for the next
date that is this next day here of the transition we're dealing with right now in the loop and we call
this QSA.
So here to finish the second edition of the target for that specific action that was played we just
need to add our discount factor that we call self that does count multiplied by this maximum of the
q values for the next stage that we called you essay.
All right and perfect.
We now have the formula of the targets.
Great.
And that's it.
That populate our batch of inputs and batch of toilets.
And so now the final step is we have to do to finish not only this get better method we're also this
human class is of course to return our populated batch of inputs and batch of targets.
And here we go.
Congratulations.
That's another big step done in this whole general AI framework.